# 
link: https://web.shanbay.com/grammy/listening/lessons/bcmgge
 Collaborative work is everything we do to come up with big new ideas and make plans to bring them to life with other people. The modern workplace is setup with so many ways to foster collaboration, meetings and brainstorming sessions, zoom and Slack channels, email, instant messaging, so many tools to help us work closely together. And aspects of this are great, but we are doing more collaborative work than every before,  and problem is it's overloading us. From lunching a new product to create a vaccine, ==almost every endeavor we do at work are requires working with together to towards a common goal.== And collaboration is a great thing. It can help us work better and smarter. ==It can help us come up with ideas we never would have had on our own.== And it can make us happier than executing tasks alone. But collaborative work has risen 50% over the past decade. It's now taking up to 85% of most people's workweeks. And those numbers from my research were prepandemic.  Study show the people are working 5 to 8 hours more a week now, ==with collaborations drifting earlier into morning and later into the evening.== ==When I came into this research, I was 100% convinced the enemy was external. It was emails, time zones and demanding clients, to name just a few.== But after hundreds of interviews, I've discovered that even when given a choice not to participate, people are taking on more collaborative work than ever before. We're just too eager to jump in to collaborations that burn up our time, and might actually run better without 20 people in the fray. About 50% of the collaborations overload problems starts with the beliefs we have about ourselves and what it means to be a good colleague than a productive person. These beliefs are hard to change but if we examine them more closely, it can allow us to make a stronger choices about what we do at work and who we do it with.